>> Kyle Simpson: Another example of
shape adaptation that we commonly do,
you will see this much more often
than may be obvious at this moment.
One kind of shape adaptation is I have a
function that takes individual arguments,
but I wanna call that
function with an array.
It's expecting individual arguments,
but here I have an array.
What do I do?
How do I get all the contents of this
array into the individual arguments?
Some of you may know about
JavaScript's .apply method,
which just takes an array and
spreads the values out as arguments.
And there's a reason why that
utility is called .apply,
because that's what functional
programmers call it.
When you take an array and
spread it out as individual arguments,
that's called an apply.
Here I've called it spreadArgs, just so
you knew exactly what it's doing.
It's spreading the argument, the array
of arguments, out into individual ones.
See how it does line three, the ...,
that's the spread operator.
It is spreading out an array of
arguments into individual ones.
But that's exactly what JavaScript's
.apply does, and it turns out the name for
this utility, as you'll find it in almost
all functional programming libraries,
is apply.
So the apply, g is the apply of f.
Line 11, it's the spread Args,
it i's the apply of f.
So, when I call g with an array,
f gets individual arguments.
Everybody follow me?
Here is a little pop quiz.
We're not gonna actually show this code
but I just want you to just play with this
in your head, maybe type it in
your code for just a moment.
This is a pop quiz.
If spreadArgs is a function
that can take an array and
spread it out onto individual ones,
what's the inverse of that?
What would unspreadArgs look like?
Unapply, what would that look like?
I would be able to pass in
individual arguments, and
the underlying function
would receive what?
>> Speaker 2: An array.
>> Kyle Simpson: An array.
Just think about that for just a moment,
we'll just take like 30 seconds.
As the pop quiz, I want you to think
about, look at that spreadArgs and
think how would I change
this to do the inverse?
>> Kyle Simpson: It's not as complex
as you might have thought the ...,
operator on line three, we simply need
to move it from line three to line two.
We need to gather the arguments
from line two and
pass them as a single array,
line three, that's it.
That's the only difference between
a spreadArgs and a gatherArgs or
an apply and an unapply,
is whether we gather first and
then pass the array, or
take an array and then spread it.
It's the only difference between the two,
and you'll find apply and
unapply in all your favorite
functional programming libraries.